OSDOCS-20033: Kueue 1.4 and DRA (#113996)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/kueue-dra-extended-resources.adoc

[NOTE]
====
The {kueue-name} operator automatically enables the required {kueue-name} feature gates when it detects the `DRAExtendedResource` Kubernetes feature gate on the cluster. No manual {kueue-name} feature gate configuration is required.
====

.Prerequisites

* You have cluster administrator permissions.
* You have installed {kueue-name} by using the {kueue-op}.
* You have created a `Kueue` CR.
* A DRA driver is installed and has published `ResourceSlice` objects.
* You have enabled the `DRAExtendedResource` Kubernetes feature gate by adding the `CustomNoUpgrade` feature set to the `FeatureGate` CR named `cluster`, as shown in the following example:
+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: config.openshift.io/v1
kind: FeatureGate
metadata:
  name: cluster
spec:
  featureSet: CustomNoUpgrade
  customNoUpgrade:
    enabled:
    - DRAExtendedResource
----
+
[WARNING]
====
Enabling the `CustomNoUpgrade` feature set on your cluster cannot be undone and prevents minor version updates. This feature set is not supported on production clusters. 
====

> 

Reviewer: It might be worth adding a step after the FeatureGate CR example for users to wait for the MCP worker rollout to complete before proceeding. Alice has also mentioned this in her [comment](https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/pull/113996#issuecomment-4836679719) as part of the flow. Same applies for Partitionable Devices flow as well.

----
$ oc get deviceclass gpu.nvidia.com -o jsonpath='{.spec.extendedResourceName}'
----
+
.Example output
[source,terminal]
----
nvidia.com/gpu
----
+
If the command does not return a value, add the `extendedResourceName` field by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc patch deviceclass gpu.nvidia.com --type=merge -p '{"spec":{"extendedResourceName":"nvidia.com/gpu"}}'
----

. Create a `ClusterQueue` that includes the GPU resource in `coveredResources`. Create a file called `er-queues.yaml` that contains the following content:
+
.Example quota configuration for extended resources
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: kueue.x-k8s.io/v1beta2
kind: ResourceFlavor
metadata:
  name: "default-flavor"
---
apiVersion: kueue.x-k8s.io/v1beta2
kind: ClusterQueue
metadata:
  name: "cluster-queue"
spec:
  namespaceSelector: {}
  resourceGroups:
  - coveredResources: ["cpu", "memory", "nvidia.com/gpu"]
    flavors:
    - name: "default-flavor"
      resources:
      - name: "cpu"
        nominalQuota: 40
      - name: "memory"
        nominalQuota: 200Gi
      - name: "nvidia.com/gpu"
        nominalQuota: 8
---
apiVersion: kueue.x-k8s.io/v1beta2
kind: LocalQueue
metadata:

>   namespace: "team-a"

Reviewer 2: team-a namespace is not created before so, if the user creates and apply "er-queues.yaml" it will error out:
`❯ oc apply -f er-queues.yaml
resourceflavor.kueue.x-k8s.io/default-flavor created
clusterqueue.kueue.x-k8s.io/cluster-queue created
Error from server (NotFound): error when creating "er-queues.yaml": namespaces "team-a" not found`

We have 2 main options I guess:
1: ask for the user to create a namespace managed by Kueue (in this case called team-a) before creating all these resources
2: change the .Example quota configuration for extended resources [source,yaml] to:

```
apiVersion: kueue.x-k8s.io/v1beta2
kind: ResourceFlavor
metadata:
  name: "default-flavor"
---
apiVersion: kueue.x-k8s.io/v1beta2
kind: ClusterQueue
metadata:
  name: "cluster-queue"
spec:
  namespaceSelector: {}
  resourceGroups:
  - coveredResources: ["cpu", "memory", "nvidia.com/gpu"]
    flavors:
    - name: "default-flavor"
      resources:
      - name: "cpu"
        nominalQuota: 40
      - name: "memory"
        nominalQuota: 200Gi
      - name: "nvidia.com/gpu"
        nominalQuota: 8
---
apiVersion: v1
kind: Namespace
metadata:
  name: team-a
  labels:
    kueue.openshift.io/managed: "true"
---
apiVersion: kueue.x-k8s.io/v1beta2
kind: LocalQueue
metadata:
  namespace: "team-a"
  name: "user-queue"
spec:
  clusterQueue: "cluster-queue"
```

Author: Replaced the example yaml.

  name: "user-queue"
spec:
  clusterQueue: "cluster-queue"
----

. Apply the quota configuration by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc apply -f er-queues.yaml
----

. Create a workload that uses the standard resource request syntax. Create a file called `er-job.yaml` with the following content:
+
.Example workload using extended resources
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: batch/v1
kind: Job
metadata:

>   generateName: er-test-job-

Reviewer 2: Creating a "er-job.yaml" and applying with generateName will error out:
`❯ oc apply -f er-job.yaml
error: from er-test-job-: cannot use generate name with apply`
Also, jobs for ER should have 'limits' as following: https://hackmd.io/@gJP2SyR2S269zMiJNBCFhQ/rkMMwJ1I-e#61-Test-Job

Suggestion:
```
apiVersion: batch/v1
kind: Job
metadata:
  name: er-test-job
  namespace: team-a
  labels:
    kueue.x-k8s.io/queue-name: user-queue
spec:
  template:
    spec:
      containers:
      - name: worker
        image: registry.k8s.io/e2e-test-images/agnhost:2.53
        args: ["pause"]
        resources:
          requests:
            cpu: "1"
            memory: "200Mi"
            nvidia.com/gpu: "1"
          limits:
            nvidia.com/gpu: "1"
      restartPolicy: Never
```

Author: Replaced the example yaml.

  namespace: team-a
  labels:
    kueue.x-k8s.io/queue-name: user-queue  
spec:
  template:
    spec:
      containers:
      - name: worker
        image: registry.k8s.io/e2e-test-images/agnhost:2.53
        args: ["pause"]
        resources:
          requests:
            cpu: "1"
            memory: "200Mi"
            nvidia.com/gpu: "1" 
      restartPolicy: Never
----

`user-queue`:: Identifies the local queue to submit the job to.

`"1"`:: Requests a GPU by using the standard extended resource syntax. No `ResourceClaimTemplate` or `resourceClaims` section is needed. The `DeviceClass` with `spec.extendedResourceName` causes the Kubernetes scheduler to generate a `ResourceClaim` automatically.

. Create the workload by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----

> $ oc create -f er-job.yaml

Reviewer 2: I guess the other references are all using "oc apply" instead of "oc create". Would be good to change to apply to keep the consistency. 
Suggestion:

```
oc apply -f er-job.yaml
```

Author: Made this change.

----

.Verification

. Verify that a workload has been created and admitted by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc -n team-a get workloads
----
+
.Example output
[source,terminal]
----
NAME                          QUEUE        RESERVED IN     ADMITTED   AGE
job-er-test-job-4m2x-d3f4g   user-queue   cluster-queue   True       10s
----

. Verify that a `ResourceClaim` was automatically created by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc -n team-a get resourceclaims
----

> +

Reviewer 2: Once on item 1 we have the command + Example output, I guess on item 2 would be good to follow the same approach. 
This would be the an example of ".Example output"

```
NAME                                         STATE                AGE
er-test-job-jj7vz-extended-resources-bggzk   allocated,reserved   24s
```

Author: Added this.

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * ai_workloads/kueue/kueue-dra-integrating-dynamic-resource-allocation.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="kueue-dra-extended-resources_{context}"]
= Configuring the extended resources path

[role="_abstract"]
You can configure {kueue-name} to manage quota for workloads that request GPUs by using the standard `resources.requests` syntax, for example, `nvidia.com/gpu: "1"`.

> When a `DeviceClass` includes the `spec.extendedResourceName` field, the Kubernetes scheduler automatically generates `ResourceClaim` objects. This path does not require `deviceClassMappings` configuration because {kueue-name} auto-discovers the mapping by indexing `DeviceClass` objects.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
When a `DeviceClass` object includes the `spec.extendedResourceName` field, the Kubernetes scheduler automatically generates `ResourceClaim` objects. This path does not require `deviceClassMappings` configuration because {kueue-name} auto-discovers the mapping by indexing `DeviceClass` objects.
```

[NOTE]
====

> The {kueue-name} operator automatically enables the required {kueue-name} feature gates when it detects the `DRAExtendedResource` Kubernetes feature gate on the cluster. No manual {kueue-name} feature gate configuration is required.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The {kueue-name} Operator automatically enables the required {kueue-name} feature gates when it detects the `DRAExtendedResource` Kubernetes feature gate on the cluster. No manual {kueue-name} feature gate configuration is required.
```

====

.Prerequisites

* You have cluster administrator permissions.
* You have installed {kueue-name} by using the {kueue-op}.
* You have created a `Kueue` CR.
* A DRA driver is installed and has published `ResourceSlice` objects.
* You have enabled the `DRAExtendedResource` Kubernetes feature gate by adding the `CustomNoUpgrade` feature set to the `FeatureGate` CR named `cluster`, as shown in the following example:
+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: config.openshift.io/v1
kind: FeatureGate
metadata:
  name: cluster
spec:
  featureSet: CustomNoUpgrade
  customNoUpgrade:
    enabled:
    - DRAExtendedResource
----
+
[WARNING]
====
Enabling the `CustomNoUpgrade` feature set on your cluster cannot be undone and prevents minor version updates. This feature set is not supported on production clusters. 
====

.Procedure

> . Verify that the `DeviceClass` has `spec.extendedResourceName` set by running the following command:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
. Verify that the `DeviceClass` object has `spec.extendedResourceName` set by running the following command:
```

+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc get deviceclass gpu.nvidia.com -o jsonpath='{.spec.extendedResourceName}'
----
+
.Example output
[source,terminal]
----
nvidia.com/gpu
----
+
If the command does not return a value, add the `extendedResourceName` field by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc patch deviceclass gpu.nvidia.com --type=merge -p '{"spec":{"extendedResourceName":"nvidia.com/gpu"}}'
----

> . Create a `ClusterQueue` that includes the GPU resource in `coveredResources`. Create a file called `er-queues.yaml` that contains the following content:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
. Create a `ClusterQueue` object that includes the GPU resource in `coveredResources` by creating a file called `er-queues.yaml`, as shown in the following example:
```

+
.Example quota configuration for extended resources
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: kueue.x-k8s.io/v1beta2
kind: ResourceFlavor
metadata:
  name: "default-flavor"
---
apiVersion: kueue.x-k8s.io/v1beta2
kind: ClusterQueue
metadata:
  name: "cluster-queue"
spec:
  namespaceSelector: {}
  resourceGroups:
  - coveredResources: ["cpu", "memory", "nvidia.com/gpu"]
    flavors:
    - name: "default-flavor"
      resources:
      - name: "cpu"
        nominalQuota: 40
      - name: "memory"
        nominalQuota: 200Gi
      - name: "nvidia.com/gpu"
        nominalQuota: 8
---
apiVersion: v1
kind: Namespace
metadata:
  name: team-a
  labels:
    kueue.openshift.io/managed: "true"
---
apiVersion: kueue.x-k8s.io/v1beta2
kind: LocalQueue
metadata:
  namespace: "team-a"
  name: "user-queue"
spec:
  clusterQueue: "cluster-queue"
----

. Apply the quota configuration by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc apply -f er-queues.yaml
----

> . Create a workload that uses the standard resource request syntax. Create a file called `er-job.yaml` with the following content:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
. Create a workload that uses the standard resource request syntax by creating a file called `er-job.yaml`, as shown in the following example:
```

+
.Example workload using extended resources
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: batch/v1
kind: Job
metadata:
  name: er-test-job
  namespace: team-a
  labels:
    kueue.x-k8s.io/queue-name: user-queue
spec:
  template:
    spec:
      containers:
      - name: worker
        image: registry.k8s.io/e2e-test-images/agnhost:2.53
        args: ["pause"]
        resources:
          requests:
            cpu: "1"
            memory: "200Mi"
            nvidia.com/gpu: "1"
          limits:
            nvidia.com/gpu: "1"
      restartPolicy: Never
----

> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
+
where:
+
```
If you're going to use a definition list for the callouts, it needs to be preceded by "where:".

SSG: https://redhat-documentation.github.io/supplementary-style-guide/#explain-commands-variables-in-code-blocks

> `user-queue`:: Identifies the local queue to submit the job to.

Reviewer 3: See the guidance about callouts in OCP docs: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1j78SA8Y-ZRlVATbVe6D8bdYj7mQzzhOJtGt1xH_3qa0/edit?usp=sharing

Since there are only 2 callouts here, consider replacing the definition list with a simple sentence or 2 to describe the callouts.

> `"1"`:: Requests a GPU by using the standard extended resource syntax. No `ResourceClaimTemplate` or `resourceClaims` section is needed. The `DeviceClass` with `spec.extendedResourceName` causes the Kubernetes scheduler to generate a `ResourceClaim` automatically.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
`"1"`:: Requests a GPU by using the standard extended resource syntax. No `ResourceClaimTemplate` or `resourceClaims` section is needed. The `DeviceClass` object with `spec.extendedResourceName` causes the Kubernetes scheduler to generate a `ResourceClaim` object automatically.
```
Check my suggestions here in case "object" is not the right word to use.

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * ai_workloads/kueue/kueue-dra-integrating-dynamic-resource-allocation.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="kueue-dra-extended-resources_{context}"]
= Configuring the extended resources path

[role="_abstract"]

> You need to create an extended resources path that users submit workloads using the standard `resources.requests` syntax, for example, `nvidia.com/gpu: 1`, and a `DeviceClass` with `spec.extendedResourceName` that exists in the cluster.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
You can configure {kueue-name} to manage quota for workloads that request GPUs by using the standard `resources.requests` syntax, for example, `nvidia.com/gpu: "1"`. When a `DeviceClass` includes the `spec.extendedResourceName` field, the Kubernetes scheduler automatically generates `ResourceClaim` objects. This path does not require `deviceClassMappings` configuration because {kueue-name} auto-discovers  the mapping by indexing `DeviceClass` objects.
```

Reviewer 4: You can also add this:
```
[NOTE]                                                                                                                                                                                                           
  ====                                                                                                                                                                                                             
The {kueue-name} operator automatically enables the required {kueue-name} feature gates when it detects the `DRAExtendedResource` Kubernetes feature gate on the cluster. No manual {kueue-name} feature gate configuration is required.    
```

Reviewer 4: Here's my idea for this doc:
```sh
// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * ai_workloads/kueue/kueue-dra-integrating-dynamic-resource-allocation.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="kueue-dra-extended-resources_{context}"]
= Configuring the extended resources path

[role="_abstract"]
You can configure {kueue-name} to manage quota for workloads that request GPUs by using the standard `resources.requests` syntax, for example, `nvidia.com/gpu: "1"`.

When a `DeviceClass` includes the `spec.extendedResourceName` field, the Kubernetes scheduler automatically generates `ResourceClaim` objects. This path does not require `deviceClassMappings` configuration because {kueue-name} auto-discovers the mapping by indexing `DeviceClass` objects.

[NOTE]
====
The {kueue-name} operator automatically enables the required {kueue-name} feature gates when it detects the `DRAExtendedResource` Kubernetes feature gate on the cluster. No manual {kueue-name} feature gate configuration is required.
====

.Prerequisites

* You have cluster administrator permissions.
* You have installed {kueue-name} by using the {kueue-op}.
* You have created a `Kueue` CR.
* A DRA driver is installed and has published `ResourceSlice` objects.
* You have enabled the `DRAExtendedResource` Kubernetes feature gate by adding the `CustomNoUpgrade` feature set to the `FeatureGate` CR named `cluster`, as shown in the following example:
+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: config.openshift.io/v1
kind: FeatureGate
metadata:
  name: cluster
spec:
  featureSet: CustomNoUpgrade
  customNoUpgrade:
    enabled:
    - DRAExtendedResource
----
+
[WARNING]
====
Enabling the `CustomNoUpgrade` feature set on your cluster cannot be undone and prevents minor version updates. This feature set is not supported on production clusters. For information about enabling feature gates, see "Enabling features using feature gates".
====

.Procedure

. Verify that the `DeviceClass` has `spec.extendedResourceName` set by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc get deviceclass gpu.nvidia.com -o jsonpath='{.spec.extendedResourceName}'
----
+
.Example output
[source,terminal]
----
nvidia.com/gpu
----
+
If the command does not return a value, add the `extendedResourceName` field by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc patch deviceclass gpu.nvidia.com --type=merge -p '{"spec":{"extendedResourceName":"nvidia.com/gpu"}}'
----

. Create a `ClusterQueue` that includes the GPU resource in `coveredResources`. Create a file called `er-queues.yaml` with the following content:
+
.Example quota configuration for extended resources
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: kueue.x-k8s.io/v1beta2
kind: ResourceFlavor
metadata:
  name: "default-flavor"
---
apiVersion: kueue.x-k8s.io/v1beta2
kind: ClusterQueue
metadata:
  name: "cluster-queue"
spec:
  namespaceSelector: {}
  resourceGroups:
  - coveredResources: ["cpu", "memory", "nvidia.com/gpu"]
    flavors:
    - name: "default-flavor"
      resources:
      - name: "cpu"
        nominalQuota: 40
      - name: "memory"
        nominalQuota: 200Gi
      - name: "nvidia.com/gpu"
        nominalQuota: 8
---
apiVersion: kueue.x-k8s.io/v1beta2
kind: LocalQueue
metadata:
  namespace: "team-a"
  name: "user-queue"
spec:
  clusterQueue: "cluster-queue"
----

. Apply the quota configuration by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc apply -f er-queues.yaml
----

. Create a workload that uses the standard resource request syntax. Create a file called `er-job.yaml` with the following content:
+
.Example workload using extended resources
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: batch/v1
kind: Job
metadata:
  generateName: er-test-job-
  namespace: team-a
  labels:
    kueue.x-k8s.io/queue-name: user-queue # <1>
spec:
  template:
    spec:
      containers:
      - name: worker
        image: registry.k8s.io/e2e-test-images/agnhost:2.53
        args: ["pause"]
        resources:
          requests:
            cpu: "1"
            memory: "200Mi"
            nvidia.com/gpu: "1" # <2>
      restartPolicy: Never
----
<1> Identifies the local queue to submit the job to.
<2> Requests a GPU by using the standard extended resource syntax. No `ResourceClaimTemplate` or `resourceClaims` section is needed. The `DeviceClass` with `spec.extendedResourceName` causes the Kubernetes scheduler to generate a `ResourceClaim` automatically.

. Create the workload by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc create -f er-job.yaml
----

.Verification

. Verify that a workload has been created and admitted by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc -n team-a get workloads
----
+
.Example output
[source,terminal]
----
NAME                          QUEUE        RESERVED IN     ADMITTED   AGE
job-er-test-job-4m2x-d3f4g   user-queue   cluster-queue   True       10s
----

. Verify that a `ResourceClaim` was automatically created by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc -n team-a get resourceclaims
----
+
The Kubernetes scheduler creates a `ResourceClaim` for each pod that requests an extended resource backed by a `DeviceClass`.
+
If the workload is not admitted, verify the following:
+
* The `DRAExtendedResource` Kubernetes feature gate is enabled on the cluster.
* The `DeviceClass` has `spec.extendedResourceName` set.
* The `ClusterQueue` includes the extended resource name in `coveredResources`.
* The `ClusterQueue` has sufficient quota available.
+
```

Reviewer 4: You can change this as per openshift docs standards.

Author: Replaced with the above procedure.

.Procedure

> . Enable the feature gates by installing or reconfiguring {kueue-name} with both feature gates enabled, as shown in the following example:

Reviewer 2: I think the users won't need to enable any feature gate by themselves. Good to double-check that info with @sohankunkerkar

Reviewer 4: That’s correct. We explicitly enable them in the operator ConfigMap, so no additional action is required from the user side.

Author: @anahas-redhat Should this step be removed?

Author: Removed the step.

+
[source,yaml]
----

> apiVersion: config.kueue.x-k8s.io/v1beta2

Reviewer 2: The users won't create this. Good to double-check if we need to show the users how to configure a FeatureGate (which would be done using a different command).

Author: @sohankunkerkar ?

Author: @anahas-redhat Please see the rewrite Sohan did for this procedure.

kind: Configuration
featureGates:
  KueueDRAIntegration: true
  KueueDRAIntegrationExtendedResource: true
----

> . Use the following command to verify the DeviceClass has `spec.extendedResourceName` set:

Reviewer 2: I think it's better to talk about the deviceClass first and then, check if it has the spec.extendedResourceName.

Author: @sohankunkerkar  Typically, we wouldn't put conceptual information in a procedure, except perhaps a sentence explaining deviceClass.

Reviewer 2: Hey Stephen. You're already talking about that. I'm just suggesting to change the order.

Author: Reversed the order of this step.

+
[source,terminal]
----

> $ oc get deviceclass gpu.nvidia.com -o jsonpath='{.spec.extendedResourceName}'

Reviewer 2: Additionally, if this command does not return anything, the user can add the extendedResourceName by running:

`oc patch deviceclass gpu.nvidia.com --type=merge -p '{"spec":{"extendedResourceName":"nvidia.com/gpu"}}'`

Author: Added this.

----
+
You can create or update the `DeviceClass`, as shown in the following example:
+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: resource.k8s.io/v1
kind: DeviceClass
metadata:
  name: gpu.nvidia.com
spec:
  extendedResourceName: nvidia.com/gpu
  selectors:
  - cel:
      expression: device.driver == "gpu.nvidia.com"
----
+
No `deviceClassMappings` configuration is needed for this path. {kueue-name} auto-discovers the mapping by indexing `DeviceClass` objects.

. Create a file called `cluster-queue.yaml` that contains the following content:
+

> .Example output

Reviewer 2: This is not actually the output, this is the input file example. Maybe here we can use something like "Example ClusterQueue configuration" or something like that.

Author: @sohankunkerkar ?

Author: See Sohan's rewrite.

[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: kueue.x-k8s.io/v1beta2
kind: ResourceFlavor
metadata:
  name: "default-flavor"
---
apiVersion: kueue.x-k8s.io/v1beta2
kind: ClusterQueue
metadata:
  name: "cluster-queue"
spec:
  namespaceSelector: {}
  resourceGroups:
  - coveredResources: ["cpu", "memory", "nvidia.com/gpu"]
    flavors:
    - name: "default-flavor"
      resources:
      - name: "cpu"
        nominalQuota: 40
      - name: "memory"
        nominalQuota: 200Gi
      - name: "nvidia.com/gpu"
        nominalQuota: 8
---
apiVersion: kueue.x-k8s.io/v1beta2
kind: LocalQueue
metadata:
  namespace: "default"
  name: "user-queue"
spec:
  clusterQueue: "cluster-queue"
----

. Run the following command to apply the configuration:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc apply -f cluster-queue.yaml
----

> 

Reviewer 2: I'm not sure if we should end would showing the user it working. I'll leave that up to you. 
My point is: if we stop after ClusterQueue creation, we would not have any workload accepted using Extended Resources and, Unlike the ResourceClaimTemplate path, this workload does not reference any ResourceClaimTemplate or ResourceClaim. The `DeviceClass` with `spec.extendedResourceName` causes `kube-scheduler` to generate a `ResourceClaim` automatically. Maybe adding a workload example we could clarify that.

Author: @sohankunkerkar ?

Author: See Sohan's rewrite.

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * ai_workloads/kueue/kueue-dra-integrating-dynamic-resource-allocation.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="kueue-dra-extended-resources_{context}"]
= Configuring the extended resources path

[role="_abstract"]
You need to create an extended resources path that users submit workloads using the standard `resources.requests` syntax, for example, `nvidia.com/gpu: 1`, and a `DeviceClass` with `spec.extendedResourceName` that exists in the cluster.

.Procedure

> . Enable the feature gates by installing or reconfiguring {kueue-name} with both feature gates enabled, as shown in the followng example:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
. Enable the feature gates by installing or reconfiguring {kueue-name} with both feature gates enabled, as shown in the following example:
```

Author: Fixed.

+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: config.kueue.x-k8s.io/v1beta2
kind: Configuration
featureGates:
  KueueDRAIntegration: true
  KueueDRAIntegrationExtendedResource: true
----
+

> The Kubernetes cluster also needs the `DRAExtendedResource` feature gate enabled on kube-apiserver and kube-scheduler (beta in Kubernetes 1.36).

Reviewer 4: I would drop this line. OCP doesn't support this feature yet. We might need a different commentary here.

Author: Deleted the sentence.

. Use the following command to verify the DeviceClass has `spec.extendedResourceName` set:
+
[source,terminal]
----

> $ oc get deviceclass gpu.example.com -o jsonpath='{.spec.extendedResourceName}'

Reviewer 4: I would replace `gpu.example.com` with `gpu.nvidia.com`  and `example.com/gpu` with `nvidia.com/gpu`

Author: replaced.

----
+
You can create or update the `DeviceClass`, as shown in the following example:
+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: resource.k8s.io/v1
kind: DeviceClass
metadata:
  name: gpu.example.com
spec:

>   extendedResourceName: example.com/gpu

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
  extendedResourceName: nvidia.com/gpu
```

Author: Changed.

  selectors:
  - cel:
      expression: device.driver == "gpu.example.com"
----
+
No `deviceClassMappings` configuration is needed for this path. {kueue-name} auto-discovers the mapping by indexing `DeviceClass` objects.

. Use the following command to add the extended resource to your `ClusterQueue`. The `coveredResources` must include the extended resource name that matches `spec.extendedResourceName` on the `DeviceClass`.
+
[source,terminal]
----

> $ oc apply -f https://kueue.sigs.k8s.io/examples/dra/sample-dra-queues.yaml

Reviewer 4: I think you might need to change this as per OCP docs. We can't use the upstream example as-is.

Reviewer 4: I think the oc apply command itself is fine. it's the upstream manifest URL that needs to change. Instead of pointing to kueue.sigs.k8s.io, inline the YAML directly in the doc and have the user create a local file, something like:
```sh
Create a file called `cluster-queue.yaml` with the following content:
  +
  [source,yaml]
  ----
  <the YAML here>
  ----

  . Run the following command to apply the configuration:
  +
  [source,terminal]
  ----
  $ oc apply -f cluster-queue.yaml
  ----
  ```
  That way users don't need external network access and the YAML stays under our control if anything changes upstream.

Author: Made these changes.
